Solar batteries Last updated 31 July 2026 The Australian Government’s Cheaper Home Batteries program provides support for households and small businesses to reduce the cost of installing eligible small-scale solar batteries. If you want to install a solar battery at your home or business, you may be able to get a discount on the purchase price of your system. Under the SRES, eligible systems can claim small-scale technology certificates (STCs). Registered agents can help you get an upfront discount on the purchase price of your system if you assign your right to claim STCs to them . You can also choose to buy and sell STCs yourself . Benefits Solar batteries allow households to store solar energy for use when it’s needed most – at night or during peak demand. This helps: harness the power of rooftop solar and reduce reliance on gas and network infrastructure lower electricity bills for participating households by reducing their need to buy electricity from the grid lower electricity bills for everyone by balancing electricity supply and demand across the whole grid support grid stability and disaster resilience accelerate renewable energy uptake and carbon abatement. Eligibility Only one solar battery system is eligible for STCs per premises. Additional solar batteries aren’t eligible for STCs after the first claim. For grid connected systems, you can claim one solar battery per national metering identifier (NMI) or commercial sub-meter. For off-grid systems , you can claim one solar battery per dwelling on the premises. Solar battery requirements To be eligible under the program, your solar battery system must be: new (created within 12 months of the installation date) and not previously installed or claimed installed with either a new or existing solar PV system of no more than 100 kW between 5–100 kWh nominal capacity installed in a single job (including for a group of batteries connected to operate as one unit) included on the Clean Energy Council (CEC) approved battery list compliant with Australian and New Zealand standards (AS/NZS 5139:2019), and state or territory electrical safety laws technically capable of participating in a virtual power plant (VPP) if grid connected or within 1 km from the grid for off-grid systems installed by a Solar Accreditation Australia (SAA) accredited installer with battery endorsement installed in accordance with SAA’s technical requirements. Battery capacity Show The nominal capacity is the maximum amount of energy a battery can store at full charge. This is usually the capacity on the product label. A group of batteries has the same nominal capacity requirement as a single battery – each one must meet the 5 kWh minimum, with a combined capacity of no more than 100 kWh. STC claim limit STCs can only be claimed for the first 50 kWh of a solar battery’s usable capacity. This is the amount of energy that can be discharged and represents the power that a home or business can draw from the solar battery. For example, a solar battery with a nominal capacity of 70 kWh and a usable capacity of 60 kWh may be eligible for STCs. However, STCs can only be claimed for up to 50 kWh. Expanding existing battery systems Additional battery capacity can be added to an existing system if the: solar battery has not previously claimed STCs additional nominal capacity is at least 5 kWh, with the total nominal capacity of the system not exceeding 100 kWh (including pre-existing batteries). See the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water for more information about expanding existing systems . Battery installation Show Once a battery is installed, it should remain at the property for the duration of the warranty period or the end of 2030, whichever is later. If you move a battery to another premises, it will no longer be eligible to claim STCs. Daily installation limits There are limitations to how many SRES-eligible installations (solar or batteries) can be commissioned per installer per day. See SAA’s technical requirements . Multiple solar battery systems The rules for multiple systems installed behind a single NMI for solar PV also apply to solar batteries. However, while solar PV can claim multiple times to add up to 100 kW, only one battery is eligible at each premises once. Batteries with existing solar PV systems Show If a solar battery is installed with an existing solar PV system, the solar PV system must comply with state and territory electrical safety regulations. The existing solar PV system doesn’t need to be on CEC’s approved product list. See examples of expanding, upgrading or replacing existing solar PV systems . Existing inverters The inverter the battery is connected to must be capable of participating in a VPP – this is a network of small, distributed energy resources that are linked and controlled using smart software to behave like a single power plant. Other inverters on site, such as existing solar PV inverters, are not required to be VPP-capable. If the solar battery is connected to an existing VPP-capable hybrid inverter, it must either: be currently listed on the CEC's approved inverter list have been listed at the time the solar PV system was commissioned. If the inverter is not currently CEC listed, it must not have been removed due to being declared ineligible or delisted for safety reasons. You can check if and why a product has been delisted . If the inverter doesn’t meet these requirements, it needs to be replaced. The new inverter must be on the CEC’s approved inverter list and be VPP-capable. Stackable battery systems Show Stackable battery systems are modules of battery cells that can be ‘stacked’ together without external wiring. These modules are normally topped with an inverter, control unit or other component that helps the stack work as a single unit. Adding battery modules to a stackable battery system is a normal practice and can be undertaken safely when meeting the manufacturer’s requirements and Australian Standards. System compliance To be eligible for STCs, new battery modules added to an existing stackable battery system must meet these requirements: The final configuration of the stackable battery system is on the CEC’s approved product list at the date of certification. If the battery management module, or another component no longer matches the current approved product, then the system is ineligible. The SAA accredited installer completes the installation and re-certifies the entire system (including the connection to the electrical installation) as safe, compliant and meeting all requirements. The installer is expected to identify and upgrade any parts of the existing system as needed. There may be other jurisdictional requirements installers need to comply with such as inspections or notifications to Distribution Network Service Providers. The additional modules and existing system are compatible in all ways and are within manufacturer specifications to add modules in that way. Any non-compliance of the final system, identified through a CER inspection or other means, will be considered the responsibility of the accredited installer or designer as appropriate. This applies to non-compliance for both added and existing components. Claiming STCs for stackable battery systems warning How to claim STCs in the REC Registry Take these steps when entering STC claims for stackable battery systems in REC Registry: Record the make and model of the solar battery as it's now installed and as listed on the CEC product list. 'Add a solar battery’ for each new battery module. Record the serial numbers of each new battery module. Record the nominal power output for the new battery modules only (not the entire system). Record the usable power output for the new battery modules only (not the entire system). Record the nominal capacity of the existing system (before you added the new modules) in the additional system information section. STCs can only be claimed for new battery modules that are added. Claiming the whole capacity of the expanded battery system may be considered fraud or making false and misleading statements to the Commonwealth. Agents are also required to confirm details and eligibility of the STCs they are creating. Off-grid batteries Show To be eligible for STCs, an off-grid solar battery must be installed on a dwelling that is lived in, such as a remote farmhouse. You may claim STCs for additional off-grid solar batteries installed on other dwellings at the same location. This includes lived in structures that are separate from the primary residence, such as a tiny home, granny flat, houseboat or caravan. The Cheaper Home Batteries program is intended to ease cost of living pressure for households. Structures that are not lived in, such as sheds or bore pumps, are not eligible. Distance from the grid Properties more than 1 km from the grid don’t need to be VPP-capable. Properties less than 1 km from the grid must either: be VPP-capable, which helps future proof installations that might connect to the grid later have written evidence that the cost to connect the unit to the main grid is more than $30,000 (excluding extra costs to extend the connection, such as to a building). Written evidence of the connection cost must be provided by the appropriate organisation in your area. This may be a distribution network service provider (DNSP) or another accredited service provider or equivalent. Homeowners and retailers should consider the cost of each option before deciding on an approach. Adding to an existing system If adding a solar battery to an existing off-grid system, you must provide written evidence from your DNSP if the solar battery or inverter are not VPP-capable. Additional off-grid solar batteries You can only claim STCs for one solar battery per off-grid dwelling. Each solar battery is subject to the relevant requirements under the Regulations and must: be separate from the main residence, or other dwellings that have already claimed STCs for a solar battery have its own solar PV system be VPP-capable, depending on its distance from the grid remain installed until after the end of 2030, or the duration of the warranty period – whichever is later. For additional off-grid batteries you must provide the usual documentation, as well as: clear photos of the dwelling where the solar battery is installed a map showing the locations of: the dwelling – for mobile dwellings such as caravans and houseboats, the map should show the primary location that it is parked or moored the main residence or other dwelling where the first solar battery was installed any other dwellings that have claimed STCs for a solar battery the hull or vehicle identification number for mobile dwellings. Combining State and Commonwealth government battery programs Show You may also be eligible for other battery programs in your state or territory when participating in our program. Check whether you can claim both, as some programs may not be eligible if you're claiming STCs under the SRES. We may share installation information with state and territory regulators to ensure compliance with their schemes. See the department’s website for more information about eligibility . Rebates and incentives If you want to install a solar battery at your home or business, your retailer may offer a discount on the purchase price of your system. Under the Small-scale Renewable Energy Scheme (SRES), eligible systems can claim small-scale technology certificates (STCs). Registered agents can help you get an upfront discount on the purchase price if you assign your right to claim STCs to them . Once your battery is installed, you can also choose to sell some of the electricity back to the grid through a VPP, where your battery helps support the grid and delivers potential savings. You need to discuss this with your energy provider. You can also choose to buy and sell STCs yourself. STC Calculation STCs are calculated based on the usable capacity of your battery. Only the first 50 kWh of usable capacity are eligible for STCs. STC factor The STC factor determines the number of STCs a system is entitled to create per kWh of useable capacity. It is adjusted in line with falling battery costs over time. This ensures the discount rate equates to around a 30% discount on the upfront cost of installing solar batteries. STC factors per kWh by year Year Period STC factor 2026 January – April 8.4 2026 May – December 6.8 2027 January – June 5.7 2027 July – December 5.2 2028 January – June 4.6 2028 July – December 4.1 2029 January – June 3.6 2029 July – December 3.1 2030 January – June 2.6 2030 July – December 2.1 Amount of support according to system size The STC factor tapers according to the amount of capacity installed: From 0 kWh up to 14 kWh (inclusive): STC factor applied at 100%. Every kWh greater than 14 and up to 28 kWh (inclusive): STC factor applied at 60%. Every kWh greater than 28 and up to 50 kWh (inclusive): STC factor applied at 15%. Use the REC Registry STC calculator to estimate the number of STCs your solar battery installation may be eligible for. REC Registry STC calculator Installing solar batteries Solar batteries must be installed with either an existing or new rooftop solar system. Find out more about installing rooftop solar. Follow our step-by-step guide to find out everything you need to know about installing a solar battery. You can read the Solar Consumer Guide and check the Clean Energy Council’s guidance. Check your energy usage Show Understanding how much electricity you use, when you use it and what your future usage may look like can help determine if a solar battery is right for you. A solar battery allows you to store excess solar energy and use it later, which can lower your bills if you’re using electricity in the evening. Understand your electricity tariffs and benefits of joining a virtual power plant Show Virtual power plants (VPP) have the potential to support the grid by absorbing excess solar power generation and then discharging when energy demands peak. Participation in a VPP can also provide a financial benefit through higher feed-in tariffs paid to the battery owner. When considering participation in a VPP, talk to your electricity retailer about the costs and benefits of different time-of-use tariffs, feed-in tariffs and whether you’ll be paid for exporting energy back to the grid. Knowing how you’re charged can help you get the most out of your battery. Choose a solar battery Show Research which system best suits your needs. Solar battery retailers and installers can give you advice about different system types. Prices, warranties and system quality can vary. We recommend you get multiple quotes and compare the systems being offered to you. It is important to choose the right size solar battery for your needs. You can’t claim STCs for future additional solar batteries at the same premises if you decide to upgrade to a larger system later. Talk to your retailer to make sure the solar battery you choose is an appropriate size for your inverter, and it meets your current and future energy requirements. These links may help you: energy.gov.au's Solar Consumer Guide includes reasons to consider getting a battery and the different battery types that are available. Your Home's guidance on batteries and inverters for information about how batteries work. The NSW Government's household guide to solar batteries for information on installing a battery. The SA Government’s solar energy information for buying guides and what to consider before signing a solar-related contract. The CEC’s consumer guidance for resources on renewable energy, including solar batteries. Check that your system is eligible under the SRES . Find a retailer, accredited designer and accredited installer Show Once you've decided to install a solar battery, you need to find a retailer. For help choosing, you can use the New Energy Tech Consumer Code program for a list of retailers. You should ask your retailer for evidence that your new solar battery is CEC approved and meets Australian standards. This will help ensure your system's quality and performance. It also protects you as a consumer if there are problems after installation. Once you've chosen a retailer and agreed to the quote, they will work with an installer to get your system installed. To be eligible under the scheme, the system must be installed by a qualified and accredited person. Make sure your retailer uses Solar Accreditation Australia accredited installers with the appropriate accreditation type for the system being installed. This ensures installation meets safety and regulatory standards. See CEC’s consumer guidance for resources on renewable energy including solar batteries. Check your installers' accreditation. Get your system installed Show On the day of installation, confirm your installer is the correct person for your installation and ask to see their accreditation and licence details. If your installer is not on site for the whole installation, confirm they'll be on site for the: job setup mid-install commissioning. After the installation is complete, check the system is in good condition and operating. Ask the installer for instructions on how to operate the system. If you're asked to sign paperwork, ensure you review and understand the documents before signing. Contact your approved seller if you have concerns or a complaint about your installation. You can find their contact details on the invoice or contract from your installation. Find out more about how to make a complaint about your solar retailer or installation . See ACCC’s information about consumer rights . Maintain your solar battery Show After your system is installed, get someone to check it’s safe every year. Use a licensed electrician accredited by SAA. It is important to have regular maintenance performed to ensure your system is: safe for those living close by safe for electrical workers performing well and saving you money on your power bills. Ask your solar retailer or installer about a recommended maintenance schedule. You may periodically check the solar battery: is free from vermin, dust and debris build up (follow manufacturer guidance or contact the manufacturer) has any signs of damage. Never touch wiring or electrical components and always follow the manufacturer’s instructions for cleaning and maintenance. Solar batteries may require firmware updates, system health checks and safety testing over time. Moving your solar battery Your solar battery must remain installed at your premises until after 2030 or the end of the warranty period, whichever is later. Your solar battery won't be eligible to claim STCs if re-installed at a new property. Solar battery inspections Show After your solar battery is installed, you may be contacted by one of our inspection providers to arrange an inspection. We inspect a statistically significant sample of installations each year and provide those results to state and territory electrical safety regulators to help improve industry education. You can’t request an inspection. Inspections are voluntary and can only go ahead with your written consent. Read more about our inspections program . Safety and consumer protections The SRES has established compliance frameworks that have been extended to batteries. These allow us to continue supporting states and territories in fulfilling their obligations for leading electrical and safety regulation. The compliance frameworks: ensure products are on the Clean Energy Council’s (CEC) approved products list require designers and installers of batteries to have the appropriate accreditation from Solar Accreditation Australia (SAA) require us to undertake inspections and share feedback and data, such as insights on key learnings and risks, with state and territory authorities responsible for electrical safety and fair trading. As with solar, we apply s