Solar panel (PV) rebate Solar panel rebates plus the option of an interest-free loan are available for eligible Victorians households. Solar panel (PV) rebates remaining this release: Last updated 21 September 2026, 1:36 PM On this page Check if you are eligible Process for solar panel (PV) installations Building a house — applying while under construction Interest-free loans Understand rebate requirements Resources Save on energy costs FAQs Eligible households can receive a rebate of up to $1,400 towards the cost of installing solar panel (PV) systems. The solar panel (PV) rebate is also available for homes under construction and rental properties . You can reduce your upfront cost further by opting-in to an interest-free loan to match the rebate amount. More rebates are released each month. New electrification and efficiency standards The Victorian Government is taking action to ensure Victorian buildings are safer, more comfortable and healthier to be in, while driving down energy bills and cutting emissions. From 1 January 2027, all new homes must be built all-electric. Existing homes from 1 March 2027 must also upgrade gas hot water systems with an efficient electric alternative, like a heat pump, as they reach end-of-life. To understand how the changes apply to you, go to New electrification and efficiency standards and regulations . Check if you are eligible As a Victorian householder, you could receive a solar panel (PV) rebate if: you are the owner-occupier of an existing property or the owner of a home under construction where the system is to be installed combined household taxable income of all owners is less than $150,000 per year value of the property is under $3 million (for an existing home or when construction is complete) property address has not previously received a solar panel (PV) or solar battery rebate under this program the property address has not had a solar panel (PV) system installed in the last 10 years you received a Solar Homes rebate and/or loan but have moved house. You can apply for another incentive at your new address as an owner-occupier if the property has not received these rebates before. You must use an authorised solar retailer and use only eligible products . Special exemptions for Solstice Energy customers If you are impacted by Solstice Energy’s closure of its compressed natural gas network, you do not need to meet our household income eligibility cap of $150,000. Please call us on 1300 376 393, 9 am to 5 pm Monday to Friday (except public holidays) if you would like help understanding our exemptions and rebates. Read more at Supporting Solstice Energy customers to go electric . Process for solar panel (PV) installations If you think you are eligible, follow the step-by-step process: Do some research – read our solar panel (PV) buyers guide Talk with an authorised solar retailer Select a system using products on our list to meet your energy needs Ask for a written quote (your retailer will upload it into the Solar Victoria portal) Wait for our email confirming the quote has been uploaded Get pre-approval to connect and export to the grid Prove you are eligible – upload your paperwork into the portal Wait for us to confirm your eligibility and send your QR code Install the solar system (within 120 days, or 270 days for homes being built) Pay the difference to the retailer – the total cost minus the rebate Start repaying the interest-free loan, if you opted for one. If you install your system before your eligibility is approved, you will not receive a rebate. Building a house — applying while under construction You can apply for a solar panel rebate while your house is being built. Talk to your builder early – preferably during the planning phase to: discuss your preference for solar get their consent to install solar during the build work out when and how the installer will access the site submit the rebate application at the right stage of construction. Homes that are under construction are not eligible for the Solar Homes Program hot water rebate. You may be eligible when construction is complete. Interest-free loans You will be offered an interest-free loan of up to $1,400 in your application. From 1 May 2026 , if you opt in for the loan, you must select it when you apply (no collateral is required). If approved, the loan amount is processed with your rebate and paid directly to your solar retailer. Loan repayments: are paid monthly over 4 years (a $1,400 loan equals $29.17 per month) are automatically debited from your bank account (you'll provide your account details when you apply) begin 30 days after your installation is approved. Understand rebate requirements Open all Prove your eligibility As part of your application you will need to supply: identification – 2 forms of ID income proof property ownership proof. ID we will accept Attach a copy of 2 of the following: Driver’s licence Medicare card Australian passport Australian birth certificate Australian citizenship certificate Foreign passport (with a valid Australian Visa) Immicard. You’ll need to make sure the names on both documents are the same. You can find out more about your Australian citizenship by visiting the Australian Government Department of Home Affairs website . Proof of income If there is more than one homeowner listed on the Council Rates Notice or Certificate of Title, we need proof of income documents for each person from the same financial year. Find out what we will accept as your proof of income documents . Why you need quotes You need to get your quote to start the rebate application process. We recommend that you don’t accept a quote in writing or pay a deposit before we confirm that you are eligible. If you do pay a deposit, make sure it is fully refundable. When you start uploading your documents to prove your eligibility, you will select the quote provided by your retailer as a starting point. Pre-approval to connect and export to the grid Ask your retailer to get pre-approval for your installation from the Distributed Network Service Provider (DNSP) to connect it to the grid. Your retailer must also advise you of any export constraints. This needs to happen before they upload your quote to our portal. Make sure you understand what the DNSP is offering you. Any solar export constraints can change your feed-in- tariff and your ability to join Virtual Power Plants. Find out more about DNSPs . QR codes When we confirm you are eligible we will email you a unique QR code. The PV QR code is your eligibility number and provides an extra level of safety. Your installer must scan it onsite on the day of your installation, and before any work starts, so we know that the installation is about to be done by an authorised installer. Installation timelines For an existing home, installation should be finalised within 120 days of us sending you the QR code. For homes under construction, installation must occur within 270 days. How rebate payments work The rebate will be paid directly to your retailer and deducted from your invoice. You only pay any outstanding balance once the system is installed. The solar panel (PV) rebate is a discount of up to 50 per cent of the purchase cost to install solar panels, to a maximum of $1,400. It is calculated after any other discounts have been applied, including Small-scale Technology Certificates. You can also apply for an interest-free loan for the equivalent to your rebate amount. Get started — apply for a solar panel (PV) rebate Apply online Resources Customer portal user guide PDF 2.6 MB (opens in a new window) Authorised solar retailers All solar panel (PV) installations must be completed by an authorised solar installer. Use our authorised solar retailer list. Solar Panel (PV) Buyers Guide A guide to types of solar panel (PV) systems available and what to consider when buying one. Eligible products To be eligible for a rebate, you must choose only products on our products lists. Top 5 questions to ask a solar retailer Key the questions to ask a retailer so you can find the right solar system for your home. Your guide to solar panels (PV) View transcript Save on energy costs Solar Homes customers with solar panels are saving up to $500 a year on energy bills. When you maximise the use of free solar energy generated through the day, you can save $1,000 a year by avoiding the retail cost of electricity. With a hot water rebate , eligible Victorians can save even more. Installing or replacing an existing gas hot water system with a quality heat pump hot water system can save you up to $400 a year on your energy bills. FAQs Open all Is there a maximum or minimum size for solar PV systems eligible for the rebate? No. There are no limits to the system you install, only a maximum rebate value. Speak to your retailer to make sure the size of your system meets any other restrictions. Can I apply for a solar panel rebate if my home is off grid? Yes, if you meet our eligibility criteria. How do I find out when my (existing) system was installed? Contact your electricity distributor and ask for the connection date. Not sure of your distributor? Go to find your energy distributor . You can also contact Energy Safe Victoria to obtain a Historical Certificate of Electrical Safety for the installation of the PV system. I have a solar (PV) system. Can use the rebate to replace or expand its solar panels? If your system is 10+ years, you might be eligible. Make sure that your existing system's inverter is powerful enough to handle new or additional panels before accepting a quote from your retailer. Can a not-for-profit community housing or social housing organisation be eligible for a rebate? Yes, if they meet the eligibility criteria for community housing organisations. To find out if your organisation is eligible, email cho@team.solar.vic.gov.au or contact us . Make the switch How to choose a good solar or hot water retailer There are many solar panel, battery and hot water retailers to choose from in Victoria. Learn how to be confident when shopping for a new system. Make the switch Is solar worth it in winter? Many people wonder whether solar panels work when it’s cold, cloudy or rainy – and if it’s worth installing rooftop solar in Victoria. And the answer is yes. Solar Homes Program Solar panel (PV) For customers Updated 1 July 2026 Related links Solar rebates for rental properties Solar Panel (PV) Buyers Guide Learn about the Solar Homes program in community languages Solar Hub Supporting Solstice Energy customers to go electric What&#39;s next Find an authorised solar retailer Product lists for our programs Apply online Contact Us Solar Victoria PO Box 104, Morwell, VIC 3840 1300 376 393 enquiries@team.solar.vic.gov.au Share this page Facebook X (formerly Twitter) LinkedIn Make the switch to electric All-electric homes, powered by solar, can save you thousands on energy bills every year. Find out everything you need to know about making the switch. Learn more Back to top Programs Solar Homes Program Solar for Apartments Program Commercial and industrial solar panel (PV) discount Solar Victoria’s Residential Electrification Grants Program requirements, safety and quality Information in community languages Solar Hub Solar Buyers Guides Solar Superheroes About us Program reporting Latest News Stay updated Events and webinars Terms and Conditions Contact us For industry Solar Victoria retailer portal login Solar Victoria installer portal login Program delivery and requirements Audits, safety and quality Industry and Consumer Reference Group Solar Homes Program promotional resources Training and workforce development Solar for Apartments information for retailers Retailer and installer terms and conditions Connect with us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Subscribe to our mailing list Customer Service team: 1300 376 393 enquiries@team.solar.vic.gov.au The Victorian Government acknowledges Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people